1. What is Linux?

A:  Linux is a free computer operating system that helps our computers hardware and software work together.
    It is used in many devices like laptops, mobile phones, servers, and even smart TVs.
    Anyone can use, share or change it because it is open-source.

2.  What is difference between Hardlink and Softlink?

    Hard Link:
A:  A hard link is like creating another name for a file. It directly points to the files data on the disk.
    If you delete the original file, the hard link still works because both the original file and the link
    share the same data.


    Soft Link:
    A soft link is like a shortcut to a file or folder. It doesnt point to the data directly but points to 
    the files name or location.
    If you delete or move the original file, the soft link will stop working.


3.  What is a Kernel in Linux?

A:  The kernel is the core part of the Linux operating system. It is responsible for managing the 
    computers hardware (like CPU, memory, and storage) and software (like programs running on our system).
    It acts as a bridge between the user and the hardware.

4.  How do you create a user account?

A:  Command to Create a User
   
     bash: sudo useradd -m <username>

    Set a Password for the User

     bash: sudo passwd <username>

5.  What is the "grep" command used for in Linux?

A:  The grep command in Linux is used to search for specific patterns or text within files. It stands for
    Global Regular Expression Print.
    It helps you find lines in files that match a given pattern (string or regular expression).


6.  Step1: Create user p1
    Step2: He should be part of 3 groups g1,g2,g3
    Step3: whenever he creates a file automatically in the group section of file grp g1 should come.

A:  Step 1: Creating user p1:

      bash: useradd -m p1

    Step 2: Create the Groups

      bash:sudo groupadd g1
           sudo groupadd g2
           sudo groupadd g3

    Step 3: Add user p1 to groups g1, g2, and g3

      bash: sudo usermod -aG g1,g2,g3 p1
    
    Step 4: Set g1 as the default group for files created by p1

      bash: sudo usermod -g g1 p1
  
    Final Confirmation:
      
      bash: groups p1
      bash: id p1

7.  Step1: Create directory /tmp/bg as root user and create files inside it.

    Step2: “abhi” should be the owner of the directory. He should be able to create files and delete files inside 

    the directory and also he should be able to add content to all files inside the directory.

A:  Step 1: Create Directory and Files as Root

       bash: mkdir -p /tmp/bg
             touch /tmp/bg/file1.txt /tmp/bg/file2.txt 

    Step 2: Create the User abhi
       
       bash: sudo useradd -m abhi

    Step 3: Give Ownership of Directory and Files to abhi
       
       bash: sudo chown -R abhi:abhi /tmp/bg

    Step 4: Set Proper Permissions
     
       bash: sudo chmod 700 /tmp/bg

    Step 5: Verify as abhi
       
       bash: sudo su abhi

    Now try: 
            cd /tmp/bg
            touch newfile.txt               
            echo "Test content" > file1.txt 
            rm file1.txt                    

8. You suspect that a particular process is consuming excessive CPU resources on your Linux server. How
   would you identify and terminate this process?

A: 1. Identify the High CPU Usage Process:

      There are several commands available in Linux to monitor system performance and resource usage.
      The most commonly used tools are:  

   a) top: top provides a real-time view of system processes.
      It shows CPU usage, memory usage, process IDs (PID), and other details.

   b) htop(more user-friendly): htop is an enhanced version of top with a colorful and interactive interface.

   c) ps: Use ps to list processes sorted by CPU usage.

   2. Terminate the Problematic Process:

      Once the high-CPU process is identified using its PID, terminate it using the kill command:

   a) Graceful Termination:

      bash: kill <PID>

      Sends SIGTERM (signal 15), allowing the process to shut down gracefully.

   b) Forceful Termination:

      bash: kill -9 <PID>
      
      Sends SIGKILL (signal 9), forcefully ending the process if it does not respond to SIGTERM